Last time on Sonic X,
Eggman contacted Sonic and
the gang with the news that
the Metarex were on the move toward
galactic coordinates 0, 0, 0,
where something majorly
mysterious was about to happen.
The team launched a counterattack,
but the mighty Metarex
proved themselves indestructible.
In the meantime, Shadow
and the Chaotix crew
crashed the Metarex mother ship in
the hopes of destroying Dark
Oak and his creepy cohorts,
while Chris went on a
mission to free Eggman.
Little did our friends know of
the extraordinary occurrence
that was about to take place-
A catastrophic collision of space and
time not seen for a thousand years!
It was time for the final transformation,
a strange and momentous event
that would alter
the galaxy forever.
Will Sonic save the day?
Or get lost in a watery
wasteland never to return?
Stay tuned!
Go, go, go, go, go
Gotta go fast
Gotta go faster, faster,
faster, faster, faster
Movin' at the speed of sound,
quickest hedgehog around
Got ourselves a situation
Stuck in a new location
Without any explanation
No talk of relaxation
Don't, don't, don't
Don't blink, don't think
Just go, go, go, go
Go, go
Sonic is on the run
Sonic, he's number one
Sonic, he's coming next,
so watch out for Sonic X
-Gotta go fast
-Sonic
Gotta go faster, faster,
faster, faster, faster
Go, go, go, go, go, go, go
Sonic X
Gotta go faster,
gotta go fast
Gotta go faster, faster,
faster, faster
Sonic X
Aah!
No! I have to go after him!
No way.
But he could be hurt.
Acting crazy isn't gonna help any.
Try to stay calm, Amy.
But you don't understand.
Sonic needs me.
Oh, Amy.
What if Sonic really
is hurt this time?
We have to get him
out of there somehow.
Oh, Sonic.
[Roaring]
This doesn't look good, guys.
Yeah. I just don't know
what to do, Tails.
Don't worry. He's going to be okay.
Huh?
This amulet is a very special one.
It belonged to my mother long ago.
Sometimes it shows me
things others cannot see.
He'll be all right.
Hm.
Really?
Well, sure. That guy
can survive anything.
And if Sonic can survive,
then we can, too.
Isn't that right, Cosmo?
Mm...
[All gasp]
Eggman here. Do you read me?
You won't believe
what's just happened.
It appears my Egg Crimson
has rather conveniently
collided with your Typhoon.
[Roaring]
Uh-oh!
[All scream]
That was close.
VECTOR: You kids okay?
Looks like Eggman's
up to something.
A cowardly trick...
Old Egghead landed
his ship on yours
so he wouldn't have to fight alone.
We don't want that
egghead on our ship.
DR. EGGMAN: What else
would you suggest?
That creepy colossus is
greening up the whole galaxy.
I should think you'd
be happy to team up
against these botanical beasties.
[Roaring]
If this forestation
farce continues,
my genius will no longer flourish.
What a terrible loss
for evil science.
How could they be so selfish?
Come on, everybody.
Let's grab some really big gardening
shears and show 'em who's boss.
[Roaring]
EARTHIA: Cosmo, do not
fear. I am always with you.
Through this amulet, I am
watching and guiding you
to your destiny.
Our planet may have been
destroyed long ago,
but through you, my daughter,
the spirit of our
people will live on.
Look for the light at
the end of the darkness.
It is there... in your heart.
What are we all
standing around for?
Shouldn't we be out there fighting?
That thing's a hundred feet tall!
What do you suggest, champ?
Well, we have to do something.
There's gotta be some
way we can break them...
something we haven't thought of.
You got your secret
weapon right here.
Sure, I may be small, but I'll-
Put a cork in it, Charmy.
Finding a weak spot in that
gargantuan green meanie
out there isn't going to be easy.
With the combined power
of the Chaos Emeralds,
not to mention the Planet Eggs,
that three-headed dino-boar's
a mighty powerful monster.
What about the Master Emerald?
Hey, why didn't we
think of that before?
ALL: Huh?
If we charge up the
Master Emerald enough,
we might be able to cause
some kind of Chaos reaction.
Well, it's worth a try.
This just might be the
idea we're looking for.
I gotta hand it to you, Knuckles.
Let's get to work
on this right away.
Thank you, Knuckles.
Chao!
Heh.
Aw, it was no big deal.
Not so fast, my little
space-keteers.
What if Knuckles' brilliant
idea lays an egg?
Pardon the pun.
What do you mean?
We are going up against a whole
lot of concentrated energy.
Scientifically speaking, even
if we charge the Master Emerald
to its maximum capacity,
it still might not work.
So, what then?
Guess you'll find out
soon enough, tiger.
Doh!
I say Knuckles' idea has to work,
because it's our only hope
for getting Sonic back.
And don't forget, you got the
team at Chaotix Detective Agency
on your side!
Yeah, in case the
whole thing goes bust.
Hey, wait a minute...
What if it does go bust?
What if the Master Emerald needs
more energy than we've got?
I have an idea.
You could use the Egg
Crimson as backup
just in case you need a little
more, shall we say, juice.
[Laughing]
Good idea, Eggy.
You know, this is
almost heartwarming,
everybody working
together like this.
Don't get carried away.
[Giggling]
DARK OAK: Your time
is up, my friends.
[Roaring]
[Grunt]
ALL: Whoa!
What do we do?
[Roaring]
BOCOE: Missile those monsters.
DECOE: I'll hit them
with a laser attack.
BOKKUN: Take that, you
three-headed freak.
[Roaring]
Hmm.
ALL: Hm!
[Roaring]
Give it your best shot, fang-face.
[Grunting]
Hang on tight, Espio.
He's a slippery one.
Yeah, and cranky, too.
[Growling]
Thousands of years ago, when Planet
Green Gate first came to be,
they believed in peace and harmony.
Hm?
Why did it all have to
come to this, Tails?
Why?
[Grunting]
Okay, you guys, the Power Cannon
is all set up and ready to go.
We've hooked it up to the
Egg Crimson for backup.
Glad we could be
of assistance, kid.
But, uh... there may
be one slight problem.
Huh?
How is it that you found yourself
in this dimension, Chris?
Well, I used the Master Emerald's
energy as a connector
to synchronize my
world with this one.
And then I teleported.
Sure, you did.
You used the Master Emerald
as a connector, all right.
But when you teleported,
you lost six years because
of an inter-dimensional
warp string,
hence that inconvenient-not
to mention embarrassing-
shift from strapping young
man, back to annoying squirt.
Those lost years were stored
as particle data inside the
Master Emerald's energy
centers for safekeeping.
Isn't it just astonishing how the
doctor knows absolutely everything?
He is a genius with a capital Gene.
So, you're really 18, huh?
Too bad you're a
total shrimpy wimp.
Grr! Who are you calling shrimp?
I'm not done.
The bad news is that if we use
up a large portion of the
Master Emerald's energy, you
just may be stuck here, junior.
Huh...
Your particle data may dissipate
within moments of charging.
In turn, I'm afraid
it could take years
to renew its current structure,
which means you may never be
able to return to your world,
and even if you do,
your molecular structure
could possibly be
permanently damaged.
Oh, no.
Sonic Power Cannon, backup
to Egg Crimson, and connect!
If it means saving my
friends from danger,
I'm willing to take the chance.
You're really going through
with this, aren't you?
I just have to believe I'll
see my folks again one day,
and when I do, I want
them to be proud of me.
Huh!
I have to admit you are
not so bad after all, kid.
[Laughing]
Yeah, here I thought you were
just a sniveling little brat,
but you are not sniveling at all.
Sure, he ain't.
Ya know, deep down, I always
knew you were an okay kid,
but these two bozos
wouldn't believe me.
Who are you calling "bozo?"
Hey, thanks a lot, you guys.
I don't know what to say.
I'm not gonna let the
Metarex win this.
You're pretty tough, kid.
All right, Tails, it
looks like the backup
with Egg Crimson
has been completed.
I've reprogrammed the Power
Cannon so it'll receive a
sustained charge from all sources.
We're ready.
The seven Chaos Emeralds
are the servers.
Chaos is the power
enriched by the heart.
[Roaring]
Knuckles!
Terrific.
Thanks for the hunk o' junk.
[Grunt]
[Grunting]
[Roaring]
Aaah!
It's time!
The controller serves
to unify the Chaos.
Come on, Master
Emerald, come through.
You're our last chance.
If this doesn't work,
the Metarex will win,
and I will not let that happen.
Come on, Master Emerald,
you can do this.
I know you can.
You're strong enough!
Don't let us down!
Master Emerald, give
us all your power!
It's almost at full power.
We'll wait a couple more seconds,
and then we'll reroute the energy.
[Growling]
Huh!
[Roaring]
[Struggling]
TAILS: Link the Master Emerald's
energy to the main cannon.
Hurry!
Okay, Chris, deactivating
trigger safety.
Set target for 12 o'clock
[Struggling]
[Metarex roars]
Start tilt function.
[Straining]
[Metarex all roar]
Get ready, Master Emerald.
Full power!
ALL: Sonic Power
Cannon, full force!
[Electricity crackles]
[Metarex scream]
[All gasp]
ALL: Aaah!
ALL: Aaaaah!
[Grunt]
DARK OAK: You fly inside
the galaxy that will be.
All life, still and silent,
green and glorious.
Huh?
You think you are free.
But you and those like
you will never be free.
There will always be violence.
There will always be waste.
There will always be destruction.
Destruction?
You wouldn't know
about that, would ya?
[Grunting]
And you, hedgehog, you are the
same as all beasts and humans.
None can coexist with nature,
so you all must be destroyed.
Think so?
You run in vain, hedgehog.
There is no hope left for you.
Why don't you give up?
Sorry to disappoint ya.
See, I got friends waiting for me.
Friends, hedgehog?
They have forgotten you.
But then, that is the way
of such fickle creatures.
Go ahead. Keep running,
Sonic the Hedgehog.
Soon your freedom to run
wild and free will be gone.
Soon you will be still
and silent forever!
Do your best, buddy.
[Roars]
[All gasp]
[Both gasp]
[Growling]
Hey, look!
I have to hand it to you kids.
It looks like your Master Emerald
master plan worked like a charm.
Oh, wow!
[Gasp]
Hm...
Ah!
AMY: Sonic!
Sonic!
Ah!
Amy!
[Gasp]
Sonic, it's you!
You saved me. I knew you would.
Amazing.
Something out there's
protecting us, Sonic.
[Bubble bursting]
ALL: Hey, Sonic!
Chao!
[Gasp]
[Chuckling]
[Giggling]
[Laughter]
ALL: Huh?
Ah!
TAILS: Hey, everybody,
check it out.
Something really weird
is happening now.
Look.
DARK OAK: You try to destroy us,
but we are more powerful
than you will ever know.
The Chaos engulfs us
like the Eternal Sea.
We shall become as one
with Chaos, forevermore.
[Roaring]
[All gasp]
He's gone.
DARK OAK: And now the
birth of a new galaxy...!
A galaxy of tranquility,
of emptiness.
I call you.
He's merged with the energy
of the Master Emerald.
Somehow he's more
powerful than ever now.
Huh?
I'm here.
[Heart beating]